The amount of data produced across the globe has been increasing
exponentially and will continue to grow at an accelerating rate for the foreseeable
future. At companies across all industries, servers are overflowing with usage
logs, message streams, transaction records, sensor data, business operations
records and mobile device data. Effectively analyzing these huge collections of
data, can create significant value for the world economy by enhancing
productivity, increasing efficiency and delivering more value to consumers.
Studies estimate that trillions of dollars of value in efficiency improvements and
economic growth can be unlocked by extracting actionable knowledge from the
deluge of data now being collected in almost every sector of the economy .
1
“We are on the cusp of a tremendous wave of innovation, productivity, and
growth, as well as new modes of competition and value capture—all driven by big
data as consumers, companies, and economic sectors exploit its potential,” write
the authors of Big Data: The Next Frontier for Innovation, Competition, and
Productivity, a comprehensive research study published in 2011 by the McKinsey
Global Institute.
Nowhere has the benefit of analyzing data been felt more strongly than at top
technology companies. Insight was founded in Silicon Valley, where companies
are not only leading in the production of data, they are also on the cutting edge of
using insights from that data to benefit their users. In fact, the role of data
scientist, now used throughout industry to describe highly specialized analysts
with deep quantitative abilities, was coined by the heads of the early data teams
at Facebook and LinkedIn. They realized that the process of asking questions
about product use cases, taking measurements, verifying hypotheses and building
upon those results closely mirrored the process by which science is done. The
individuals, therefore, who apply their curiosity, quantitative skills and intellect
toward understanding big data are now known as data scientists - a job title that
is one of the most in-demand job roles at today’s leading companies .